# Recommender-System-for-News

- Crawler.java:

This class deals with downloading the news from the Twitter accounts of different
newspapers; the names of the newspapers are present in the file lista account.txt.
The algorithm takes as input the names of the headers one at a time and, thanks
to the Twitter-api, download the latest 200 news items that have been published on
the timeline.
To avoid having duplicate news in the database, a check is made by id of the news
so as to trace which was the last downloaded and go to download those published
thereafter.

- TopicIndexing.java:

This class takes as input eight XML files, one for each topic, containing each one a
fixed set of documents relating to the specific topic.
The data inside these files are indexed through the java library lucene and saved in
eight different indexes, as shown in Figure 1; to be able to index the data a custom
analyzer (TextAnalyzer.java ) has been created specifically for data pre-processing.
The indexes will then be used by the CosineSimilarity.java class.

- TweetIndexing.java:

This class takes as input the XML files generated by the Crawler.java class.
The data inside these files are indexed through the java library lucene and saved
in an index; to be able to index the data it has been created a custom analyzer
(TextAnalyzer.java) that performs data pre-processing.
This is saved in RSNnindex folder.
The index will then be used by the CosineSimilarity.java class.

- TextAnalyzer.java:

This class defines the custom analyzer used by the TopicIndexing.java and 
TweetIndexing.java classes for data pre-processing.

- CosineSimilarity.java:

This class takes the index of tweets and indexes of topics as input.
For each tweet and for each topic the TD-IDF of the text is calculated generating a
vector that characterizes every single document.

- GuiRSN.java:

This class implements a simple graphical interface that is used as demo to show how
the system works.



Used libraries:
- Lucene 8.1.1
- Twitter4j
- Java Swing 1.5

(All necessary libraries are present in the RSN/jar folder)

To import the project, once downloaded from github, open Eclipse and select
file -> import -> general -> existing project into workspace

To be able to use the Crawler.java class it is necessary to generate tokens relating
to api-Twitter and insert them in the RSN/twitter4j.properties file.
Tokens can be generated by following this link:
https://developer.twitter.com/en/docs/basics/authentication/guides/access-tokens.html

In the imported project all the files are already present for the correct functioning
of the system (xml containing the tweets, Lucene index and csv with the scores);
you can then start the demo by running the GuiRSN.java file.

If you want to test the compilation and operation of the other classes, start the
classes in the following order:

Crawler.java -> TweetIndexing.java -> CosineSimilarity.java -> GuiRSN.java
